# x9115222
##Coding up the Type 1 , 2 , 3 Comparison Operators and Using them to Compare DE, SA and MWS 

### Running Instructions 

###Abstract
We compare statistics generated via Scott-Knott to decide which of DE, MWS and SA work best to optimize DTLZ 7 with 2 objectives and 10 decisions. To generate these statistics , we use the Loss number generated between the last and the first generation of each optimiser . We calculate this loss number 20 times for each optimizer and used the array hence generated and inputted them to the Scott Knott statistic generation program . We found that DE works best for optimisation then SA and then MWS .  
For DE and MWS and SA, code up the Type1,Type2, Type3 comparison operators and use them to:

Find the final era computed by DE, MWS, SA (with early termination)
Computer the loss numbers between era0 the final era
Important implementation note: repeat the above with 20 different baseline populations. For each baseline, run DE,MWS,SA.
Apply the above for DTLZ7 with 2 objectives 10 decisions.

Using the statistical machinery discussed in class (Scott-Knott, a12, bootstrap) to decide in any of DE, MWS, SA is best for this model. TO collect data, 20 times, generate a baseline population and for each baseline, the run DE, MWS, SA from that baseline.
 

###Objective
To compare which out of DE, MWS and SA optimises DTLZ7 with 2 objectives and 10 decisions the best . 

###Type 1 , Type 2 , Type 3 Operators
When we are comparing the functioning of two optimisers , we utilise three comparison operators : 
1) Type 1 operator: This operator is used to decide which amongst two candidates generates a better solution for DTLZ 7 . The DTLZ 7 has 2 objectives and we need to compare if a candidate is better than a second candidtae on both these objectives. The Type 1 operator should take the minimum time to compute . 
2) Type 2 operator : This operator is used to decide whether ir not there is a significant improvement between two eras generated by an optimizer. It is used for early termination as well . If there is significant improvement we continue on with the next generation , else we terminate the current generation . 
3) Type 3 operator : This operator is used to decide which of the three optimizers is best for the given problem being optimized. 

###Implementation 
We applied the Type 1 and Type 2 operators to our code for SA, MWS and DE and compared the loss values between consequent generations 20 times. These values were then compared using Type 3 statistical machinery via Scott Knott and graphs were generated. Thsi is how these three operatore were applied : 
1) The Type 1 operator : This was used to compare two candidates generated and decide which one was better . This was done in the inner most loop of each optimisers . To compare two candidates we computed the objectives generated for each candidate and aggregated them by a simple summation . Since The Type 1 operator should take minimum time to run and also since for DTLZ 7 the objectives do not conflict , doing a summation seemed to be ok .
2) The Type 1 operator : 

###Results

###Threats to Validity 

###Future Work 

### Running Instructions 
